Monte Carlo Configuration Interaction
=====================================

MCCI computes energy estimates by an iterative process, starting from
a set of CSFs (which initially may be a single CSF). In each step,
additional CSFs are randomly generated by single and double excitations
relative to the CSFs in the trial vector. The CI matrix diagonalization
problem is solved on the subspace defined by the resulting expanded
vector. This vector is then screened or 'pruned' by removing CSFs whose
associated coefficient in the CI eigenvector has a magnitude lower than
a given threshold. This pruned vector serves as trial vector for the
generation of a new set of randomly generated CSFs in a subsequent
cycle, and  this sequence is repeated until convergence in the energy
and CI vector length is reached. This scheme makes it possible to
gradually increase the amount of correlation that the program will
find, by gradually decreasing the CSF inclusion threshold, while
keeping the computations tractable.


Compile Instructions
--------------------

The provided Makefile assumes the availability of an MPI-enabled
Fortran 90 compiler under the name 'mpif90'. This can be changed
manually, but the user needs to check that all the flags used in
the Makefile are supported by the other compiler.

If the compiler is changed, please note that the system clock
called in the subroutine gen_seed.f90 may also need to be
changed, depending on the behaviour of the system_clock standard
subroutine on the platform used.


Keywords for the mcci.in file
-----------------------------

    ieig              =  Eigenvalue to be calculated. Each eigenvalue in each irrep begins with ieig=1 
                         i.e. ieig=1 is lowest energy eigenvalue in an irrep, ieig=2 is first excitation in an irrep, ... 
    n_up              =  Number of spin up (alpha) electrons
    n_dn              =  Number of spin down (beta) electrons
    cmin              =  Coefficient threshold:  Defines the minimum value of CSF's coefficient to be kept following
                         a matrix diagonalization, i.e. the "pruning threshold"
    s                 =  Spin ( units of h_bar ) (principle case M_s=S)
    maxtry            =  The maximum number of cycles (branch, diagonalization, prune) that should be performed
    mo_up(:)          =  Molecular orbital indices for up (alpha) electrons
    mo_dn(:)          =  Molecular orbital indices for down (beta) electrons
    lmin              =  Minimum vector length- branch will always generate lmin CSFs
    npfull            =  A "full prune" step will be performed every npfull cycles
    lkeep             =  Configurations to keep throughout a calculation. The first lkeep CSFs will not be pruned.
    hmin              =  H matrix threshold- elements of the H matrix with absolute values below hmin are not stored
    davidson_stop     =  Maximum number of iterations before stopping for convergence in the Davidson algorithm
    bmin              =  Minimum vector boost (used to adjust Monte Carlo sample size in early stages of a calculation)
    bmax              =  Maximum vector boost (used to adjust Monte Carlo sample size in early stages of a calculation)
    frac              =  Branching ratio: number of new CSFs / number of CSFs in current CI vector
    conv_thresh_e     =  Energy convergence: change in energy between npfull cycles is less that conv_thresh_e after ncheck tests
    conv_thresh_l     =  Vector convergencer: change in vector length between npfull cycles is less than conv_thresh_l for ncheck tests 
                         (Note, the number of tests, n, is defined by the keyword conv_history)
    restart           = .TRUE. or .FALSE. If this is set to true, then, a calculation will be 
                         restarted from a previous calculation and civ_in must be present (i.e. previous runs civ_out file 
                         should be renamed to civ_in).  If set to false, a calculation will begin from the CSF with
                         occupations define in mcci.in
    test              = .TRUE. or .FALSE. Debugging flag
    time              = .TRUE. or .FALSE. Timing information, general
    time_all          = .TRUE. or .FALSE. Timing information, detailed
    nobrnch_first     = .TRUE. or .FALSE. No branching in the first step
    nodiag            = .TRUE. or .FALSE. Used for collecting CSFs only (No matrix diagonalisation is peformed during cycles)
    i_want_conv       = .TRUE. or .FALSE. Stop mcci by using convergence criteria.
    npfull_conv       = .TRUE. or .FALSE. Convergence test only in npfull steps
    conv_average      =  Number of npfull steps to be averaged for convergence
    conv_history      =  Window of npfull steps to be include in convergence checking
    frozen_doubly     =  Indices of orbitals to be frozen (i.e. no excitations are allowed from these molecular orbitals 
                         during the CI calculation). Note frozen orbitals must be doubly occupied.
    mo_active         =  Orbital lists of active orbitals, includes all occupied and (initially) unoccupied orbitals to include 
                         in the CI calculations. Note excludes frozen_doubly and all inactive virtual orbitals
    lref              =  Branch (i.e. generate new CSFs) relative to only the first lref CSFs in a CI vector


Example: setting up a calculation in a higher symmetry
------------------------------------------------------

From the original control file that is obtained from the geometry relaxed
system, note the numbers for the occupied symmetries, e.g.

    A1 1-7
    A2 1-3
    B1 1-9
    B2 1-2

Then run eiger -a and go as high up in energy as required and note the numbers
of orbitals that you want to run for mpgrad. Make sure to leave no gaps
between representations.

Then change A1 - B2 for the new symmetries and run mpgrad_ints twice.

To fill this into mcci, we only need to look at the latest version of the
control file.

Fill in the n_up and n_down as required. Then we must label the symmetry
representations in correct order, so if have:

    MPGRAD control     MCCI counting
    
    A1 1-10            1-10
    A2 1-5             11-16
    B1 1-15            17-...
    B2 1-4             .......

The general rule is: for the first representation it stays as is, for the
following :

(#orbitals) + (#electrons) -1

And when filling in the mcci.in file , the same rule applies.

